For the final project, I worked with Ondina and Yuchi to explore the ethics of "anonymizing" people with alphanumeric codes. We explored these codes used to identify us, like Social Security Numbers, licenses and school IDs. We all felt that there was something dehumanizing about the practice, but we recognized that there were also benefits to identifying people with codes. For example, using a code for identifcation can remove bias when others are evaluating you. These identifying characters and numbers are not inherently anonymous, though. Your social can show where you were born/naturalized and your license can show your birthdate. Also, when we rely on codes for identification it can erase your true identity. For example, my brother recently had his wallet stolen, including his bank and social security card. He contacted the bank to replace his card and the thief contacted the bank and cancelled the replacement card. She/he had all of my brother's identifying information and, to the bank, that was as good as being him.

To visualize our ideas, we used a hex editor to manipulate photographs of ourself. For numbers we use infrequently, like our NYU IDs, we manipulated the photographs slightly and for numbers that are used far more often, like our SSNs, we manipulated the photographs heavily. We were also curious about all of the ways we were possibly being identified and might not even know about, like on marketing lists.  We manipulated the image for unknown numbers the most as a symbol for how distorted our identity may be. Finally, we took a single image and layered the manipulations with a timeline of how we acquired numbers. 

See the final post at http://dataart.blprnt.com/?p=477